README.md, before:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/aa5f20fe-ba4c-4956-b6b5-fcb2470537e1/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/trusting-perlman-3c2ee5/deploys)

# Frontend workflow

This repository contains a (opinionated) starterkit for developing a frontend application/website. It contains code linting (with Prettier, TSLint and StyleLint), TypeScript, PostCSS with SASS (that has Bulma.io framework initialized) and generation of Favicons. The build is based on Webpack 4.

You can preview the output here: [https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com](https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com). There you'll find included JS components and you can do your own audit checks on this site to compare the performance with other projects.

The focus of this workflow is performance:

- By using a css-only framework, you are free to choose **whatever JS Framework you want**. [1]
- By inlining critical CSS/JS and async loading the rest, you'll get a fast **First Meaningful Paint**.
- By using linting tools for CSS and JS, everybody follows a **consistent code style**.
- By using TypeScript, you can check your code on type errors and more.
- By generating Favicons automatically, you don't need to spend hours making all sizes of icons for all possible usecases.
- By using a PWA friendly approach, your app will also work **offline by default** and will **cache assets**.
- **Drupal 8 ready**: included (but not loaded by default) JavaScript components automatically check if they are loaded in Drupal environment and will **attach to DrupalBehaviors** accordingly.
- Code splitting ready, you can use **dynamic imports by default**.

If you don't like a feature, you can disable it and write another one.

[1] However, there are some JavaScript components included, that are written for our projects and are handy tools, but here again, you are free to not use them.
If you don't want to use them, remove them from entry points in `webpack.common.js`.

By default they are loaded as separate files, you can un-comment them (in `webpack.common.js`) if you do not wish to use them.

## Browser support

The default components work on these browsers:

- IE11
- Edge
- Chrome
- FireFox
- Opera
- Safari

There is also Core-JS polyfill library added for your convenience if you'll need to add more polyfills in the future.

## Install

Download this repository to the root of the frontend of your project.
Make sure you have the correct Node version installed. There is `.nvmrc` available for your convenience. Run in this folder:

```bash
nvm use
```

Then install all dependencies:

### NPM

```bash
npm install
```

or

### Yarn

```bash
yarn install
```

## Usage

### Developing

Use `yarn start` to start the webpack dev server, you can now start developing, the browser will be automatically reloaded on any code/asset change. You can add the HTML in `index.html`.

You can also use `yarn start:d` to start the dev server with [dashboard](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/webpack-dashboard). This gives you a better overview.

For examples on how to use TS within this workflow, please read `TypScript usage examples`.

You can start writing your CSS in `src/index.scss` and JS code in `src/project/Site.ts`. Alternatively, you can create your own entry points.

#### TypeScript

This starter kit is initialized with TypeScript. You can change the settings in `.tsconfig.json`. Any typings that you will need, you can add in `src/typings`.

#### CSS (w/ PostCSS and SCSS)

This starterkit is preset with [Bulma css framework](https://bulma.io). You can use it or you can remove it in index.scss. You can also use normal `.css` files in your project, they will be bundled too.

There are some PostCSS plugins already preinstalled. You can change PostCSS setting and add/remove plugins in `postcss.config.js`.

- [postcss-utilities](https://github.com/ismamz/postcss-utilities)
- [postcss-easing-gradients](https://github.com/larsenwork/postcss-easing-gradients)
- [@csstools/postcss-sass](https://github.com/jonathantneal/postcss-sass)
- [autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer)
- [postcss-css-variables](https://github.com/MadLittleMods/postcss-css-variables)
- [cssnano](https://cssnano.co/)

**Build performance tip**: Do not use `.scss` if it's not needed, with PostCSS plugins you can do a lot of stuff. If you need Bulma mixins and colors, you should use `.scss` then.

#### Prettier/Editorconfig

There is a Prettier integration for your code style consitency. You can change its settings in `.prettierrc.json`. There is also an `.editorconfig` available to help you and your IDE to set the correct settings for code style consistency.

#### Images

Images are automatically optimized when creating a production build. No optimizations are done when using it in development mode.
Favicons/manifest files are also generated on production build only.

### Linting

You also have some linting tasks available:

- `yarn lint:js` will lint all TypeScript files with TSLint. You can change options of the linter in `.tslint.json`.
- `yarn lint:css` will lint all (s)css with StyleLint. You can change options of the linter in `.stylelintrc.json`.
- `yarn lint` will run both lint tasks

#### Linting in VSCode

To help you with linting, you can install these extensions for VSCode (or your favorite IDE):

- EditorConfig for VS Code
- ESLint
- Prettier
- stylelint
- TSLint

### Components

There are some JavaScript components available for your ease (We have included them as we reuse them a lot). There are 2 ways of using them.

1. **(Easy/Not so performant)**: Un-comment them from entry points from `webpack.common.js`. This way they are automatically initialized and are separate from the main bundle. This way you can load them with Drupal dependencies on specific pages/modules. They are also added in the built `.html` file and they just work.
2. **(More work, but most performant)**: You can import them (not the `index.ts` file) manually in `Site.ts` and attach them. This way, they will be bundled in main bundle so they will require only 1 network request. You can also dynamically load them when needed.

```ts
import {ResponsiveNavbar} from './../vendor/bulma/responsive-navbar/ResponsiveNavbar'
// ...
ResponsiveNavbar.attach()
```

We suggest that you bundle them in `Site.ts` manually. If you have a big dependency that is not frequently used in the website, you can load it separately as a different entry point.

### Code splitting

This is a default webpack behavior, please read more information here: [https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/).

This is a basic example how you can use it:

```ts
// ./components/BigComponent.ts

export class BigComponent {
  constructor(name: string) {
    console.log(`big component initialized: ${name}`)
  }
}
```

```ts
// Site.ts

// ...
export class Site {
  constructor() {
    // ...
    this.initBigBundle()
  }

  private async initBigBundle(): Promise<void> {
    const {BigComponent} = await import(/* webpackChunkName: "bigcomponent" */ './components/BigComponent')
    const bigComponentInstance = new BigComponent('foo')
  }

  // ...
}
```

### Building

To create a production build, use `yarn build` (will lint code before) or use `yarn export` to create a build without linting the code.

#### Submodules

- **Favicons**: Will generate all icons and manifests for a PWA ready app.
- **CriticalCSS**: Will inline critical CSS, based on 3 viewports (Mobile, Tablet Horizontal, Desktop). You can edit the viewports.
- **SW Precache**: Will generate a service worker to cache resources of the website, thus allowing offline usage. (Depends on how you structure your app).
- **Async JS**: Will add `async` attribute on all scripts allowing them not to block the rendering.

### Lighthouse audits

With default configuration, the lighthouse audit gives us this score. However, to get the full pass on the audit you must follow it's guidelines when modifying the default settings and adding new CSS and/or JS. Some things you just can't automate fully. Look at the comments below how to fix those issues.

#### Desktop

- **Performance**: 100. Keep in mind: the more JS/CSS you write, the worse it can get. When adding images, you can use lazy loading for a better score.
- **Progressive Web App**: 100.
- **Accessibility**: 91. By using default Bulma css, the color contrast is not good enough, you can change the colors based on the project.
- **Best Practices**: 100.
- **SEO**: 100. Please consider reading SEO optimizations articles. Do not forget to add the correct attributes in HTML.

#### Mobile

Same metrics for mobile with default configuration except for:

- **Accessibility**: 89. Same error as on desktop.

#### Server-side performance

Keep in mind that servers (and their configuration) are a big part of performance. The demo site is running on [Netlify servers](https://netlify.com) and their configuration is optimized for static pages and front-end. This way we can get such high score. If you are hosting your website yourself you'll need to add cache-, gzip-, expires, ... headers yourself.

### Options

Before creating a build, you should update the following files/settings:

- 1: Everything under `"config"` key in `package.json`. See table below.
- 2: Supported browsers can be changed under `"browserslist"` key in `package.json`.
- 3: Add an app icon in `src/favicon.png`. The build will create all possible icons for your app (iOS, Android, Browsers, ...). You should use a high enough resolution, minimum of 256x256px (preferably 1024x1024px).

| Name                | Type      | Default                               | Description                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| addFilenameHashes   | `boolean` | true                                  | Add contenthash to bundle files (useful for cache busting). Set to false if you use back-end to load assets. |
| outputPath          | `string`  | dist                                  | Folder name (from the root) where to output files.                                                           |
| fromRoot            | `string`  | '/'                                   | If this workflow is inside another folder, specify path to it.                                               |
| publicPath          | `string`  | /                                     | The final url where the app will be hosted. Only needed for production.                                      |
| cacheId             | `string`  | frontend-workflow                     | Cache ID for Service Worker.                                                                                 |
| name                | `string`  | Frontend Workflow                     | Name attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                              |
| shortName           | `string`  | Frontend                              | Short name attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                        |
| description         | `string`  | /                                     | Description attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                       |
| author              | `string`  | /                                     | Author attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                            |
| authorUrl           | `string`  | /                                     | Author URL attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                        |
| theme               | `string`  | #00d1b2 (Default Bulma primary color) | Theme attribute to be inserted in manifest.json. (use with `#`)                                              |
| background          | `string`  | #ffffff                               | Background attribute to be inserted in manifest.json. (use with `#`)                                         |
| drupal8.active      | `boolean` | false                                 | Activates Drupal8 mode. (see documentation for more info)                                                    |
| drupal8.subFolder   | `string`  | /                                     | Subfolder from the root (= public) where the theme is located. (e.g. '/themes/custom/mytheme/')              |
| modules.favicons    | `boolean` | true                                  | Generate favicons on build. Only used in production build.                                                   |
| modules.criticalCSS | `boolean` | true                                  | Inline Critical CSS. Only used in production build.                                                          |
| modules.swPrecache  | `boolean` | true                                  | Generate a Service Worker. Only used in production build.                                                    |
| modules.asyncJS     | `boolean` | true                                  | Add `async` attribute to scripts. Only used in production build.                                             |

## Drupal 8 mode

There is also support for running this workflow in a Drupal 8 theme (it should also work for other backend frameworks, but hasn't been tested). If you set `drupal8.active` to true, this will change the following build settings:

- Filename hashes are turned off. Files will be loaded by php.
- Public path will be set to `drupal8.subFolder` setting so that built assets user correct path.
- Critical CSS will be turned off (this will change the performance score!)
- There will be `tags.html` file created in `dist` folder containing all favicon tags that you'll need to include in HEAD.

Keep in mind that the Frontend performance score that we try to achieve with this workflow will be lowered as some parts are turned off. Also there will be more work required by Backend dev that is not in scope of this project.

You can use `yarn watch` to start developing. This will start watching all files and they will be generated. You can also use `yarn start` to develop in a `.html` page (the development time is faster this way as we don't need wait on php to be loaded first).

**Note:** Keep in mind that no `.css` is being created when watching. Only on `yarn build`/`yarn export` will there be `.css` files created.
**Note 2:** Because the `.css` files are not created on dev, only in production, do not forget to include them in your `.libraries.yml` file in your theme. `runtime.bundle.js` also does not exist on build, it will be inline piece of code, you'll need to add it too in the HTML on production. In short, there are different files for dev and production builds, so include them accordingly based on the environment.

## Files to deploy

Webpack creates a bundle of your app in the folder `dist`. Therefore you can only deploy the build folder to production.
All other files you should NOT deploy to production as this can pose a security threat.

## TypScript usage examples

Here are some examples on how to use TS with this workflow.

### Import thirdparty library

If a library in question is written in TS or has TS support, you can just import it normally.

```ts
import EE from 'onfire.js'

export default class Canvas extends EE {
  constructor() {
    super()
  }
}
```

If a library has no support for TS, you'll need to search for types in npm repository for this library.

```bash
yarn add @types/jszip
```

```ts
import JSZip from 'jszip'
const zip = new JSZip()
```

If no types do not exist, you'll need to create one yourself and add it to folder `src/typings/`. Find information on how to do it here: [https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/introduction.html](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/introduction.html)

## Demo content

You can see the demo here: [https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com](https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com). To remove all demo content, follow these steps:

- Remove `demo` entry point from `webpack.common.js`
- Remove `src/demo`
- Remove demo html from `index.html`

You can now start with our own project.

## Requests and bugs

If you encounter bugs or have some requests, please create a ticket at [Github](https://github.com/ioulian/frontend-workflow/issues).

## TODO

These are our own TODO's that might, or might not be included in this workflow, based on priority, ease of use/configuration and performance gain/penalty. If you want to implement them or help us out, you can always let us know!

- (MED PRIO) Add prefetch tags to HTML for CSS and JS
- (MED PRIO) Fix JS breakpoint on IE11 and Edge
- (MED PRIO) Modify AsyncModuleLoader to load event delegated things too. And add mutationobserver to document to still load components
- (LOW PRIO) Follow [Gimli](https://gimli.app/) to add it in the future
- (LOW PRIO) Change lazy loading to this way: https://addyosmani.com/blog/lazy-loading/
- (LOW PRIO) Check how to remove dependency code in another .js file that is already stand alone module (see expendable and accordion => expandable is included in accordion)

## Possible libraries/workflows

To keep the performance of the app up and the workload for developers low, this is a list of useful libraries/workflows:

- [js-cloudimage-responsive](https://github.com/scaleflex/js-cloudimage-responsive)

## Idea behind

This frontend framework started as a simple grunt task (a few years back) that minified CSS and JS. From there it grew into more advanced gulp tasks, that transpiled ES6, built SCSS, generated favicons and optimized images. Now this is rewritten for Webpack.

We use this workflow in our websites and projects and will update it with any new stuff (JS components/performance optimizations/...) that we think will make this workflow better and faster. This is an ongoing project, but maybe in the future we will create a new one when new technologies arrive.

There is no automatic upgrade path available as this is a boilerplate, however it should be possible for you to upgrade to a new version if you only keep `src/` from your project and update everything else. (Except if you change some settings in webpack config or any .json files, you'll need to update them too later).

## Copyright and license

Code copyright 2019 Yulian Alexeyev. Code released under [the MIT license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

add module for bottom navbar on mobile and rewrite some things

README.md, after:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/aa5f20fe-ba4c-4956-b6b5-fcb2470537e1/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/trusting-perlman-3c2ee5/deploys)

# Frontend workflow

This repository contains a (opinionated) starterkit for developing a frontend application/website. It contains code linting (with Prettier, TSLint and StyleLint), TypeScript, PostCSS with SASS (that has Bulma.io framework initialized) and generation of Favicons. The build is based on Webpack 4.

You can preview the output here: [https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com](https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com). There you'll find included JS components and you can do your own audit checks on this site to compare the performance with other projects.

The focus of this workflow is performance:

- By using a css-only framework, you are free to choose **whatever JS Framework you want**. [1]
- By inlining critical CSS/JS and async loading the rest, you'll get a fast **First Meaningful Paint**.
- By using linting tools for CSS and JS, everybody follows a **consistent code style**.
- By using TypeScript, you can check your code on type errors and more.
- By generating Favicons automatically, you don't need to spend hours making all sizes of icons for all possible usecases.
- By using a PWA friendly approach, your app will also work **offline by default** and will **cache assets**.
- **Drupal 8 ready**: included (but not loaded by default) JavaScript components automatically check if they are loaded in Drupal environment and will **attach to DrupalBehaviors** accordingly.
- Code splitting ready, you can use **dynamic imports by default**.

If you don't like a feature, you can disable it and write another one.

[1] However, there are some JavaScript components included, that are written for our projects and are handy tools, but here again, you are free to not use them.
If you don't want to use them, remove them from entry points in `webpack.common.js`.

By default they are loaded as separate files, you can un-comment them (in `webpack.common.js`) if you do not wish to use them.

## Browser support

The default components work on these browsers:

- IE11
- Edge
- Chrome
- FireFox
- Opera
- Safari

There is also Core-JS polyfill library added for your convenience if you'll need to add more polyfills in the future.

## Install

Download this repository to the root of the frontend of your project.
Make sure you have the correct Node version installed. There is `.nvmrc` available for your convenience. Run in this folder:

```bash
nvm use
```

Then install all dependencies:

### NPM

```bash
npm install
```

or

### Yarn

```bash
yarn install
```

## Usage

### Developing

Use `yarn start` to start the webpack dev server, you can now start developing, the browser will be automatically reloaded on any code/asset change. You can add the HTML in `index.html`.

You can also use `yarn start:d` to start the dev server with [dashboard](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/webpack-dashboard). This gives you a better overview.

For examples on how to use TS within this workflow, please read `TypScript usage examples`.

You can start writing your CSS in `src/index.scss` and JS code in `src/project/Site.ts`. Alternatively, you can create your own entry points.

#### TypeScript

This starter kit is initialized with TypeScript. You can change the settings in `.tsconfig.json`. Any typings that you will need, you can add in `src/typings`.

#### CSS (w/ PostCSS and SCSS)

This starterkit is preset with [Bulma css framework](https://bulma.io). You can use it or you can remove it in index.scss. You can also use normal `.css` files in your project, they will be bundled too.

There are some PostCSS plugins already preinstalled. You can change PostCSS setting and add/remove plugins in `postcss.config.js`.

- [postcss-utilities](https://github.com/ismamz/postcss-utilities)
- [postcss-easing-gradients](https://github.com/larsenwork/postcss-easing-gradients)
- [@csstools/postcss-sass](https://github.com/jonathantneal/postcss-sass)
- [autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer)
- [postcss-css-variables](https://github.com/MadLittleMods/postcss-css-variables)
- [cssnano](https://cssnano.co/)

**Build performance tip**: Do not use `.scss` if it's not needed, with PostCSS plugins you can do a lot of stuff. If you need Bulma mixins and colors, you should use `.scss` then.

#### Prettier/Editorconfig

There is a Prettier integration for your code style consitency. You can change its settings in `.prettierrc.json`. There is also an `.editorconfig` available to help you and your IDE to set the correct settings for code style consistency.

#### Images

Images are automatically optimized when creating a production build. No optimizations are done when using it in development mode.
Favicons/manifest files are also generated on production build only.

### Linting

You also have some linting tasks available:

- `yarn lint:js` will lint all TypeScript files with TSLint. You can change options of the linter in `.tslint.json`.
- `yarn lint:css` will lint all (s)css with StyleLint. You can change options of the linter in `.stylelintrc.json`.
- `yarn lint` will run both lint tasks

#### Linting in VSCode

To help you with linting, you can install these extensions for VSCode (or your favorite IDE):

- EditorConfig for VS Code
- ESLint
- Prettier
- stylelint
- TSLint

### Components

There are some JavaScript components available for your ease (We have included them as we reuse them a lot). There are 2 ways of using them.

1. **(Easy/Not so performant)**: Un-comment them from entry points from `webpack.common.js`. This way they are automatically initialized and are separate from the main bundle. This way you can load them with Drupal dependencies on specific pages/modules. They are also added in the built `.html` file and they just work.
2. **(More work, but most performant)**: You can import them (not the `index.ts` file) manually in `Site.ts` and attach them. This way, they will be bundled in main bundle so they will require only 1 network request. You can also dynamically load them when needed.

```ts
import {ResponsiveNavbar} from './../vendor/bulma/responsive-navbar/ResponsiveNavbar'
// ...
ResponsiveNavbar.attach()
```

We suggest that you bundle them in `Site.ts` manually. If you have a big dependency that is not frequently used in the website, you can load it separately as a different entry point.

### Code splitting

This is a default webpack behavior, please read more information here: [https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/).

This is a basic example how you can use it:

```ts
// ./components/BigComponent.ts

export class BigComponent {
  constructor(name: string) {
    console.log(`big component initialized: ${name}`)
  }
}
```

```ts
// Site.ts

// ...
export class Site {
  constructor() {
    // ...
    this.initBigBundle()
  }

  private async initBigBundle(): Promise<void> {
    const {BigComponent} = await import(/* webpackChunkName: "bigcomponent" */ './components/BigComponent')
    const bigComponentInstance = new BigComponent('foo')
  }

  // ...
}
```

### Building

To create a production build, use `yarn build` (will lint code before) or use `yarn export` to create a build without linting the code.

#### Submodules

- **Favicons**: Will generate all icons and manifests for a PWA ready app.
- **CriticalCSS**: Will inline critical CSS, based on 3 viewports (Mobile, Tablet Horizontal, Desktop). You can edit the viewports.
- **SW Precache**: Will generate a service worker to cache resources of the website, thus allowing offline usage. (Depends on how you structure your app).
- **Async JS**: Will add `async` attribute on all scripts allowing them not to block the rendering.

### Lighthouse audits

With default configuration, the lighthouse audit gives us this score. However, to get the full pass on the audit you must follow it's guidelines when modifying the default settings and adding new CSS and/or JS. Some things you just can't automate fully. Look at the comments below how to fix those issues.

#### Desktop

- **Performance**: 100. Keep in mind: the more JS/CSS you write, the worse it can get. When adding images, you can use lazy loading for a better score.
- **Progressive Web App**: 100.
- **Accessibility**: 91. By using default Bulma css, the color contrast is not good enough, you can change the colors based on the project.
- **Best Practices**: 100.
- **SEO**: 100. Please consider reading SEO optimizations articles. Do not forget to add the correct attributes in HTML.

#### Mobile

Same metrics for mobile with default configuration except for:

- **Accessibility**: 89. Same error as on desktop.

#### Server-side performance

Keep in mind that servers (and their configuration) are a big part of performance. The demo site is running on [Netlify servers](https://netlify.com) and their configuration is optimized for static pages and front-end. This way we can get such high score. If you are hosting your website yourself you'll need to add cache-, gzip-, expires, ... headers yourself.

### Options

Before creating a build, you should update the following files/settings:

- 1: Everything under `"config"` key in `package.json`. See table below.
- 2: Supported browsers can be changed under `"browserslist"` key in `package.json`.
- 3: Add an app icon in `src/favicon.png`. The build will create all possible icons for your app (iOS, Android, Browsers, ...). You should use a high enough resolution, minimum of 256x256px (preferably 1024x1024px).

| Name                | Type      | Default                               | Description                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| addFilenameHashes   | `boolean` | true                                  | Add contenthash to bundle files (useful for cache busting). Set to false if you use back-end to load assets. |
| outputPath          | `string`  | dist                                  | Folder name (from the root) where to output files.                                                           |
| fromRoot            | `string`  | '/'                                   | If this workflow is inside another folder, specify path to it.                                               |
| publicPath          | `string`  | /                                     | The final url where the app will be hosted. Only needed for production.                                      |
| cacheId             | `string`  | frontend-workflow                     | Cache ID for Service Worker.                                                                                 |
| name                | `string`  | Frontend Workflow                     | Name attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                              |
| shortName           | `string`  | Frontend                              | Short name attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                        |
| description         | `string`  | /                                     | Description attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                       |
| author              | `string`  | /                                     | Author attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                            |
| authorUrl           | `string`  | /                                     | Author URL attribute to be inserted in manifest.json.                                                        |
| theme               | `string`  | #00d1b2 (Default Bulma primary color) | Theme attribute to be inserted in manifest.json. (use with `#`)                                              |
| background          | `string`  | #ffffff                               | Background attribute to be inserted in manifest.json. (use with `#`)                                         |
| drupal8.active      | `boolean` | false                                 | Activates Drupal8 mode. (see documentation for more info)                                                    |
| drupal8.subFolder   | `string`  | /                                     | Subfolder from the root (= public) where the theme is located. (e.g. '/themes/custom/mytheme/')              |
| modules.favicons    | `boolean` | true                                  | Generate favicons on build. Only used in production build.                                                   |
| modules.criticalCSS | `boolean` | true                                  | Inline Critical CSS. Only used in production build.                                                          |
| modules.swPrecache  | `boolean` | true                                  | Generate a Service Worker. Only used in production build.                                                    |
| modules.asyncJS     | `boolean` | true                                  | Add `async` attribute to scripts. Only used in production build.                                             |

## Drupal 8 mode

There is also support for running this workflow in a Drupal 8 theme (it should also work for other backend frameworks, but hasn't been tested). If you set `drupal8.active` to true, this will change the following build settings:

- Filename hashes are turned off. Files will be loaded by php.
- Public path will be set to `drupal8.subFolder` setting so that built assets user correct path.
- Critical CSS will be turned off (this will change the performance score!)
- There will be `tags.html` file created in `dist` folder containing all favicon tags that you'll need to include in HEAD.

Keep in mind that the Frontend performance score that we try to achieve with this workflow will be lowered as some parts are turned off. Also there will be more work required by Backend dev that is not in scope of this project.

You can use `yarn watch` to start developing. This will start watching all files and they will be generated. You can also use `yarn start` to develop in a `.html` page (the development time is faster this way as we don't need wait on php to be loaded first).

**Note:** Keep in mind that no `.css` is being created when watching. Only on `yarn build`/`yarn export` will there be `.css` files created.
**Note 2:** Because the `.css` files are not created on dev, only in production, do not forget to include them in your `.libraries.yml` file in your theme. `runtime.bundle.js` also does not exist on build, it will be inline piece of code, you'll need to add it too in the HTML on production. In short, there are different files for dev and production builds, so include them accordingly based on the environment.

## Files to deploy

Webpack creates a bundle of your app in the folder `dist`. Therefore you can only deploy the build folder to production.
All other files you should NOT deploy to production as this can pose a security threat.

## TypScript usage examples

Here are some examples on how to use TS with this workflow.

### Import thirdparty library

If a library in question is written in TS or has TS support, you can just import it normally.

```ts
import EE from 'onfire.js'

export default class Canvas extends EE {
  constructor() {
    super()
  }
}
```

If a library has no support for TS, you'll need to search for types in npm repository for this library.

```bash
yarn add @types/jszip
```

```ts
import JSZip from 'jszip'
const zip = new JSZip()
```

If no types do not exist, you'll need to create one yourself and add it to folder `src/typings/`. Find information on how to do it here: [https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/introduction.html](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/introduction.html)

## Demo content

You can see the demo here: [https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com](https://trusting-perlman-3c2ee5.netlify.com). To remove all demo content, follow these steps:

- Remove `demo` entry point from `webpack.common.js`
- Remove `src/demo`
- Remove demo html from `index.html`

You can now start with our own project.

## Requests and bugs

If you encounter bugs or have some requests, please create a ticket at [Github](https://github.com/ioulian/frontend-workflow/issues).

## TODO

These are our own TODO's that might, or might not be included in this workflow, based on priority, ease of use/configuration and performance gain/penalty. If you want to implement them or help us out, you can always let us know!

- (MED PRIO) Add prefetch tags to HTML for CSS and JS
- (MED PRIO) Fix JS breakpoint on IE11 and Edge
- (MED PRIO) Modify AsyncModuleLoader to load event delegated things too. And add mutationobserver to document to still load components
- (MED PRIO) Change factory to https://github.com/fasttime/polytype, it's a better module
- (LOW PRIO) Follow [Gimli](https://gimli.app/) to add it in the future
- (LOW PRIO) Change lazy loading to this way: https://addyosmani.com/blog/lazy-loading/
- (LOW PRIO) Check how to remove dependency code in another .js file that is already stand alone module (see expendable and accordion => expandable is included in accordion)
- (LOW PRIO) Change fixed header implementation to https://pqina.nl/blog/applying-styles-based-on-the-user-scroll-position-with-smart-css/ maybe?

## Possible libraries/workflows

To keep the performance of the app up and the workload for developers low, this is a list of useful libraries/workflows:

- [js-cloudimage-responsive](https://github.com/scaleflex/js-cloudimage-responsive)

## Idea behind

This frontend framework started as a simple grunt task (a few years back) that minified CSS and JS. From there it grew into more advanced gulp tasks, that transpiled ES6, built SCSS, generated favicons and optimized images. Now this is rewritten for Webpack.

We use this workflow in our websites and projects and will update it with any new stuff (JS components/performance optimizations/...) that we think will make this workflow better and faster. This is an ongoing project, but maybe in the future we will create a new one when new technologies arrive.

There is no automatic upgrade path available as this is a boilerplate, however it should be possible for you to upgrade to a new version if you only keep `src/` from your project and update everything else. (Except if you change some settings in webpack config or any .json files, you'll need to update them too later).

## Copyright and license

Code copyright 2019 Yulian Alexeyev. Code released under [the MIT license](LICENSE).
